well the US Secretary of State is in
Israel to reassert American support his
visit follows the first shipment of US
military aid that arrived in Israel on
Wednesday blinkin is also set to meet
Palestinian presidents makmur Abbas and
Jordan on Friday Sarah hardat reports
from West
Jerusalem see another us reassurance to
Israel this time face to face we're here
we're not going anywhere US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu shake hands
firmly a show of solidarity between two
countries whose Alliance and friendship
goes beyond
politics building on his Jewish Heritage
and referencing bipartisan supports for
Israel blink had this message you may be
strong enough on your own to defend
yourself but as long as America exists
you will never ever have to we will
always be there by your side the
standing together in unity Benjamin
Netanyahu welcomed the US's help Mr
secretary your visit is another tangible
example of America's unequivocal support
for
Israel Hamas has shown itself to be an
enemy of
civilization US citizens and other
foreign Nationals were among those
killed or captured during the attack on
Israel by Hamas fighter on
Saturday intelligence and Military
Support from the US arrived on Wednesday
in the form of the world's largest
aircraft carrier fighter jets and other
military
aid Lincoln's visit in the formation of
a so-called War cabinet under an
emergency Unity government is supported
nationally in
Israel the United Nations and other
nations though are urgently calling on
the country to allow safe passage for
people to leave Gaza
but for now they have no way out as
Israel continues its
bombing AL jazer West
Jerusalem well let's speak to ABD Hamid
who is outside the knesset in West
Jerusalem and uh as we heard in that
story there the Israeli Prime Minister
announcing the declaration of war um the
formal declaration of war clearly he's
building a case uh for a full escalation
or Invasion potentially into Gaza is
there any support what is the support
like within Israel for
that I think the it it's kind of a mixed
bag I think that and you could hear that
uh or decifer that really from the words
of the Prime Minister uh he was
basically going through this formality
as you said but at the same time
speaking to the Israeli public saying
that you cannot not sit or talk with
Hamas and the only way forward is to get
rid of the group and debilitate or as in
his words annihilate uh the group
equating Hamas uh to isol now um how
much support does he have Israelis are
known that in time of crisis in time of
difficult times they sort of unite and
stand together in solidarity uh but the
Prime Minister knows perfectly well that
he's under uh a lot of scrutiny and then
once the dust settles once this war is
over uh he will have to answer some very
tough questions I'm just going to give
you the results of one poll that came
out today uh well according to 94% of
those questioned is um uh they believe
that the government is responsible for
the defense failure when it came to the
gaza's trip and not
84% put
the the uh blame of what unfolded on
October 7th that the day Hamas attacked
Southern Israel on the failure of the
political leadership and
56% say that Netanyahu should go once
the war is over so there is a lot at
stake here for the uh prime minister
whether it is for the survival of his
political career or indeed his legacy
hter don't go anywhere because I want to
ask you about a shooting near uh herod's
gate and occupied East Jerusalem that
happened just a short time ago before we
go to that there is we're also listening
in and seeing uh some huge huge
explosions that are happening right now
in Gaza clearly Israel's bombardment
continuing uh relentlessly uh this
evening there in
Gaza we've seen it right throughout the
day huge big plumes of black smoke
filling the sky now it is night time you
can only see uh smaller plumes and often
orange and red flashes as the bombs
continue to raise rain down on
Gaza okay h i I want to ask you again uh
about this shooting uh that's happened
near herod's gate in occupied East
Jerusalem that happened just a short
time
ago yes it was according I mean all the
information we have is from the Israeli
police accordingly there was an exchange
of gunfire next to a police station
there would be a number of policemen
that would have been wounded in that
exchange of gunfire but the Israeli
police say that um the attacker has been
neutralized now that's the word they use
to say that indeed he has been
killed I think this is also one of the
challenges uh the Prime Minister and his
emergency Unity cabinet have in mind uh
because as every with every day that
passes with those pictures of those huge
explosions happening in Gaza not very
far from here about an hour and a half
drive from where we are uh well the the
mood among the Palestinians is one of
increased anger um
so keeping the cities inside the borders
of Israel quiet is a huge Challenge and
being able to really the I think that's
one of the roles of this war cabinet is
also being able to make sure that all
the resources are very well divided
between the ongoing uh War uh in Gaza if
there is a ground offensive but also
keeping the peace or trying to keep the
peace inside the cities around the
country and in indeed along the northern
border with uh Israel so it's a very
complicated situation and with every day
that passes and all this International
support you know the US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin in Tel Aviv
earlier showing uh supports to Israel H
the US President Joe Biden also showing
is saying that there unequivocal support
to Israel without mentioning at all the
Palestinians all that would at some
point increase the anger and they could
be a Tipping Point and we have seen that
in the past in a previous war just uh
two years ago in 2021 when there was an
eruption of
intercommunal uh fighting between um
Israelis and Palestinian Israelis so it
is a very complicated situation and one
and such attack like the one that
happened now could be followed by a
reprisal attack from settlers uh that
live in also in occupied East Jerusalem
and then that becomes a vicious circle
okay thank you so much for that that is
H abdalhamid for us in West Jerusalem